spf(1)			     General Commands Manual			  spf(1)

NAME
     spf - report on the given domain's use of SPF

SYNOPSIS
     spf [-Vbhjv] [-f format] [-p policy] [-r address] domain

DESCRIPTION
     The spf tool allows you to inspect the Sender Policy Framework DNS records
     for the given domain.

OPTIONS
     The following options are supported by spf:

     -V		 Print version information and exit.

     -f format	 Output format (json, perl, text; default: text).

     -h		 Display help and exit.

     -p policy	 Expand and report on the given policy.	 Note: policy needs to
		 be quoted; see EXAMPLES.

     -r address	 Explicitly query this resolver.

     -v		 Be verbose.  Can be specified multiple times.

DETAILS
     The Sender Policy Framework (SPF) defined in RFC7208 specifies the format
     for the SPF DNS entries a domain may choose to apply.  These entries can
     range from the straight forward to the complex, harboring certain surprises
     or unintenionally obscuring important information, such as when one domain
     includes the SPF records of another domain.

     spf can be used to report on the comprehensive ruleset derived from the DNS
     record.  It does that by counting CIDRs, resolving e.g., MX records, and
     recursively looking up SPF records of any included domains.

EXAMPLES
     The following examples illustrate common usage of this tool.

     To report on the SPF records for the domain netmeister.org:

	   spf netmeister.org

     To query Quad9's public resolver for the same SPF records and report the
     results in json format:

	   spf -r 2620:fe::fe -f json netmeister.org

     To expand an arbitrary policy from the command-line:

	   spf -p "v=spf1 a:example.com include:example.net -all"

EXIT STATUS
     The spf utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     dig(1)

HISTORY
     spf was originally written by Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org> in
     July 2022.

BUGS
     Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the author.

NetBSD 9.3			February 7, 2024		      NetBSD 9.3
